# Introduction

## The Beginning

Motion. At first glance, it appears to be something extremely uninteresting and trivial. People have been studying motion for thousands of years, but it was not until 1687, when Isaac Newton formulated his three laws of motion, that people finally started to understand it more deeply. Newton’s laws of motion were so ahead of their time that some scientists still consider him the most revolutionary physicist of all time. But even Newton’s laws are not perfect, and in 1905 came the special theory of relativity, which brilliantly describes the motion of objects moving at high speeds and was formulated by Albert Einstein. But there is another theory that started to develop at the same time, a theory that completely changed our perception of reality. In 1900, the cornerstone of quantum mechanics was laid.

Quantum mechanics deals with objects from the microworld, such as subatomic particles. These objects behave nothing like those of “classical” proportions from the macroworld we ordinarily deal with and thus cannot be described by classical physics.

In this website, you will be able to explore the world of this ground-breaking theory. And if at any point you struggle to comprehend some of its peculiar phenomena, do not worry; you are not the only one. Richard Feynman, one of the greatest contributors to quantum mechanics, once said, *“I think I can safely say that nobody understands quantum mechanics.”*

## Quantum Physics

Quantum physics is the study of matter and light at the subatomic level. It makes an attempt to characterize and account for the properties of molecules and atoms, as well as their constituents – electrons, protons, neutrons, and even more exotic particles like quarks and gluons. These features include particle interactions with one another as well as interactions with electromagnetic radiation.

The behavior of matter and radiation on the atomic scale often seems peculiar, and the consequences of quantum theory are accordingly difficult to understand and to believe. Its concepts frequently conflict with common-sense notions derived from observations of the everyday world. There is no reason, however, why the behavior of the atomic world should conform to that of the familiar, large-scale world. It is important to realize that quantum mechanics is a branch of physics and that the business of physics is to describe and account for the way the world – on both the large and small scales – actually is and not how one imagines or would like it to be.

The study of quantum physics is rewarding for several reasons. First, it illustrates the essential methodology of physics. Second, it has been enormously successful in giving correct results in practically every situation to which it has been applied. There is, however, an intriguing paradox. In spite of the overwhelming practical success of quantum mechanics, the foundations of the subject contain unresolved problems – in particular, problems concerning the nature of measurement. An essential feature of quantum mechanics is that it is generally impossible, even in principle, to measure a system without disturbing it; the detailed nature of this disturbance and the exact point at which it occurs are obscure and controversial. Thus, quantum mechanics attracted some of the brightest scientists of the 20th century, and they erected what is perhaps the finest intellectual edifice of the period.
